There are other types of nuclear weapons as well. For example, a boosted
fission weapon is a fission bomb that increases its explosive yield through a
small amount of fusion reactions, but it is not a fusion bomb. In the boosted
bomb, the neutrons produced by the fusion reactions serve primarily to increase
the efficiency of the fission bomb. There are two types of boosted fission
bomb: internally boosted, in which a deuterium-tritium mixture is injected into
the bomb core, and externally boosted, in which concentric shells of
lithium-deuteride and depleted uranium are layered on the outside of the
fission bomb core. Some weapons are designed for special purposes; a neutron
bomb is a thermonuclear weapon that yields a relatively small explosion but a
relatively large amount of neutron radiation; such a device could theoretically
be used to cause massive casualties while leaving infrastructure mostly intact
and creating a minimal amount of fallout. The detonation of any nuclear weapon
is accompanied by a blast of neutron radiation. Surrounding a nuclear weapon
with suitable materials (such as cobalt or gold) creates a weapon known as a
salted bomb. This device can produce exceptionally large quantities of
long-lived radioactive contamination. It has been conjectured that such a
device could serve as a "doomsday weapon" because such a large quantity of
radioactivities with half-lives of decades, lifted into the stratosphere where
wind currents would distribute it around the globe, would make all life on the
planet extinct. In connection with the Strategic Defense Initiative, research
into the Nuclear pumped laser was conducted under the Dod program Project
Excalibur but this did not result in a working weapon. The concept involves the
tapping of the energy of an exploding nuclear bomb to power a single-shot laser
which is directed at a distant target. During the Starfish Prime high-altitude
nuclear test in 1962, an unexpected effect was produced which is called a
Nuclear electromagnetic pulse. This is an intense flash of electromagnetic
energy produced by a rain of high energy electrons which in turn are produced
by a nuclear bomb's gamma rays. This flash of energy can permanently destroy or
disrupt electronic equipment if insufficiently shielded. It has been proposed
to use this effect to disable an enemy's military and civilian infrastructure
as an adjunct to other nuclear or conventional military operations against that
enemy. Because the effect is produced by very high altitude nuclear
detonations, it can produce damage to electronics over a very wide, even
continental, geographical area. Research has been done into the possibility of
pure fusion bombs: nuclear weapons that consist of fusion reactions without
requiring a fission bomb to initiate them. Such a device might provide a
simpler path to thermonuclear weapons than one that required development of
fission weapons first, and pure fusion weapons would create significantly less
nuclear fallout than other thermonuclear weapons, because they would not
disperse fission products. In 1998, the United States Department of Energy
divulged that the United States had, "...made a substantial investment" in the
past to develop pure fusion weapons, but that, "The U.S. does not have and is
not developing a pure fusion weapon", and that, "No credible design for a pure
fusion weapon resulted from the DOE investment". Antimatter, which consists of
particles resembling ordinary matter particles in most of their properties but
having opposite electric charge, has been considered as a trigger mechanism for
nuclear weapons.[14] A major obstacle is the difficulty of producing antimatter
in large enough quantities, and there is no evidence that it is feasible beyond
the military domain.[15] However, the U.S. Air Force funded studies of the
physics of antimatter in the Cold War, and began considering its possible use
in weapons, not just as a trigger, but as the explosive itself.[16] A fourth
generation nuclear weapon design is related to, and relies upon, the same
principle as Antimatter-catalyzed nuclear pulse propulsion.
