The holiday shopping season is a mere four weeks away, which means that tech
companies need to get their products out, stat. We've already seen launches
from Google and Apple, but now it's time for Microsoft to unleash the gadgets
you'll be lusting after this December. The rumor mill has already given us
clues as to what we might see at the company's big reveal later this week (and
no, a Surface Pro 5 probably isn't on the menu). We've rounded up the likeliest
bets here. Have a look, pre-order some popcorn and then prepare to follow along
with our liveblog as it unfolds on Wednesday.

Following a sluggish start, Microsoft's Surface line of Windows devices has
become something of a blockbuster. Sales of the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book
are now close to making the division a billion-dollar business for the
historically software-led company. That's why it's no surprise to see hints
that Microsoft will add yet another device to its burgeoning hardware lineup.

According to ZDNet's Mary Jo Foley, the company will use the event to showcase
a product called "Cardinal" that will operate as an all-in-one PC. It's not
clear how this unit will work in the real world, although Windows Central
theorizes it'll be a large, tablet-like device that can be used as a display or
as a desk. Patent drawings (pictured above) suggest an all-in-one PC that's
part iMac, part Wacom Cintiq pen display, and part home theater. That patent,
however, relates to a modular device that could be augmented with add-on units,
perhaps like Acer's Revo Build PCs.

Foley understands that Cardinal will be sold in a variety of different screen
sizes, ranging from 21 inches all the way up to 27. Alternatively, the device
could be marketed as a scaled-down version of the company''s Surface Hub, with
a giant touch display for museums and businesses that want more than just a
whiteboard. Given how the Surface Pro 4 and Surface Hub allow for precise
input, that Cintiq comparison might be quite relevant.

Fans of existing Surface devices may be disappointed on Wednesday, as rumors
suggest there will be no Surface Pro 5 or second-generation Surface Book at
this week's event. Instead, those two devices will get their own flashy launch
party in early 2017, in time for a spring or summer ship date. That said, the
company may incorporate a spec bump into the existing models to accommodate
Intel's latest Kaby Lake seventh-generation Core processors.

It would be a massive surprise if Microsoft also used this event to trot out
the long-rumored Surface Phone. The company seems to have all but given up on
mobile at this point. Indeed, that rumored Lumia follow-up has reportedly been
pushed back to 2018, if it's ever released at all. Given how the smartphone
world is currently atrophying, it seems like the company should stop wasting
time and money on a device that stands little chance of stealing market share
from Android and iOS.

Windows 10 is expected to be the focal point of Wednesday's event -- it is,
after all, the glue holding together the company's hardware lineup. That said,
it looks as if Microsoft won't have anything too earth-shattering to show off.
Windows Central and ZDNet believe that the bulk of the conversation will center
on the so-called Redstone 2 update to Windows 10, which is due early next year.
The update mostly provides minor improvements to the OS, including enhancements
to the camera app and better drawing support for Windows Ink. But those may
become headline features if the Surface all-in-one is geared toward creative
professionals, like graphic designers.

The company may also want to use the event to remind customers that it's
cleared the way for legacy Windows apps to come to Windows 10. As VentureBeat
reported back in September, Win32 apps and games are slowly filtering into the
store now that the company's Desktop App Converter is available. That tool can
pull older Win32 programs and repackage them for the firm's newfangled Windows
Universal Platform.

One thing we're certain we won't hear is any serious discussion of Microsoft
Office, mostly because Microsoft is planning to put on a separate keynote
dedicated solely to its productivity suite. The week after this
consumer-focused shindig, the company will host a media event in Manhattan
exploring how Office can "empower every team to achieve more."
